This lesson we're going to jump into our editor and we're going to build out and Ajax request using
just plain javascript so no libraries and we're going to make it reusable.
So wrap it into a function so that we can grab it and reuse the code.
And then from the show results we'll call over to that function.
So what we're going to pass in a parameter and that's going to be a U or L so is set up my U or L for
that and for here we need to grab an end point.
So your L that has an end point.
A really easy one is random user api.
So usually works without a lot of configuring or sending any headers.
And let's add that you are all in there.
So this is the end point that we want it to connect to.
And now we're ready to build out our function.
So let's do that now.
So creating a function and this is where Ajax call is going to sit we can call it Ajax if we want a
jocks J.S. and we need one parameter and that's the you are all.
And also within here we're going to be returning back a callback.
So we've got a callback function that we're loading in there and then within when we call that we're
going to be doing a response function
so it's we've got callback in there.
I we move this up a bit add some space so it's more centered.
So Ajax G-S So what it's going to do it's going to look like just a regular x M-L or a char object give
it a variable name of X a char.
So you SML HTP request this creates our request object
and then with the HTP request we need to do two things.
So what we need to open up that object specify a method we're going to be using get because all we're
doing is we're not posting any data.
All we're doing is retrieving data.
And the next value is the you are l and whether we want it asynchronous so we're going to leave it as
true for asynchronous exit char and then next what we need to do is just send it.
So there we go.
So we've created our Rick S.H. our request it's all been sent.
And next we need to check for the ready state and the ready state changes.
There's a number of different states there's actually five different states and we're going to be listening
for a change on the ready state object.
And when the ready state makes its change then we fire off a function and for analysis console log out
that exits are just a console log out the whole X a char object.
So next what we need to do is we need to set up our function to call for the Ajax and we want it to
pass through this next thing that we want to do.
We do want to make use of that newly created Ajax function that we just created.
So let's set that up and in here we need to pass in a U or L and also we're going to do a callback function.
So this function is going to respond back with the response data that's going to be sent from the Ajax
request and what we want to do is console log this.
So this is response to a console log the response object and we're still not returning anything yet.
So let's let's set that up as well so we're Konsole logging out the X a char on change and we're also
going to call back.
So we just use that function call box to the one that we're stating in here that is going to get fired
off and that's going to be a call that to over here so call back and within the callback we'll just
return back ready.
Change for now and we'll update that later on.
So let's try that out.
So there we go.
So we clicked it and we fired off our click.
So we don't actually need this one anymore.
That one's a little bit redundant there.
We know that we've clicked it when we see something happening and we see that ready state change over
time.
The ready state changes.
We fire off and we get that callback function which is actually what we're logging out here with that
response there.
So every time it changes it fires off we get the console log of the entire ready state object.
And here we can see that we go through all the ready States here.
So we start out at zero and dirty state changes to 1.
Then we fire off this function where the state changes to two.
We fire off the function three four and then finally when it gets to four then.
Thus this is where we get our information such as the status of 200 and we see that ready state is four.
So this is the one that we're ultimately after we want to make sure that it gets to ready state for
and once it does then we should have.
Once it does and status is 200 then we should have some response text there ready to go.
So let's update our function to match that and actually return back that object information.
So instead of ready state change we need to have a few other parameters here that is going to be looking
to make sure that our experts our object is ready to go.
So we're going to have a condition here and SH are ready states are going to look at the ready state
value and just like over here that ready state is for it.
That's the value that we're looking for.
So we make sure it's ready state is for and we're also going to make sure that the S.H. our status is
equal to 200.
Now you could potentially go with just the ready state for but usually it's better to have two checks
just to make sure your status is 200 in case the status comes back to 404.
And then you try to get a response text and you encounter some type of error.
So let's account for that.
And then once that condition is met then we know that we can have our object there are data.
And what we can do is we can do a J on parce because it's coming back within a string format and we're
expecting Jaison.
So the only API is that we're connecting to are going to be all saw formatted and then now Scrubb from
a char object that response text and send back.
And we're still just logging whatever that responses.
So now we make some changes we should try it out.
Just make sure it works.
So what's going to happen now.
When I click the button we've got our event listener here listening for the button click.
Let me move that in so we can actually see we could also break that up into several lines.
But because I'm on a half screen here it is a little bit hard to see.
But basically we click the Search button.
We have that event handler which fires off the show results function show results function passes in
all we've got to you are all here.
So it passes that you are l and has a callback function here where we do something with data on the
response and then what we're doing is we're just simply Konsole logging it out and in upcoming lessons
we're going to actually output it so we're just making sure that our Ajax G-S function is working properly.
So next over here is the Ajax to use function takes two parameters.
So your L and call back and we're loading that X a char object.
We're opening it up and we're sending it to the Eurail that was sent within the parameters.
And then on ready state change we're listening for the ready state for status to be 200 because then
we know that we can get the H.R. response text whatever that might be.
And we're using js on Parse to return it back in a Jaison format object.
So that should load out within the console.
So after all of that let's try that.
So there we are.
So we did get the results back and we can also customize this if we just wanted the info we could get
the info there if we wanted the results.
This is within an array format.
And at this point we could actually loop through the results.
So more on this coming up.
We just wanted to make sure that our Ajax G-S or AJAX call in javascript is fully functional.
Returning back that response data and then this is a function that we can reuse over and over again
because it's so is going to return back whatever that response text and we can customize it for however
we need it because we are connecting to do two different endpoints.
We're going to connect to Wikipedia and we're also going to connect to the YouTube API.
So the idea here is that we've got an input field the user enters in a search term we return back some
Wikipedia information and we also return back for sample videos that they can click and open up on YouTube.
So building the site is coming up next.
Try it for yourself open up your editor and make sure that this function is ready to fire off.
You can try various API endpoints as well just to make sure that you are getting that response information
in there.
So go ahead and try out for yourself and next lesson.
We're going to continue to build the suit.